NOTE:

bash vs tmux:
tmux isnt a separate terminal, but rather a terminal multiplexer that runs ontop of the bash shell:

Start from the basics:

Hardware:
your computer + periferals (cpu, keyboard, Memory, display)

Kernel: The core of the operating system.
it schedules cpu time, memory allocation, etc
NOTE: programs do not interact directly with hardware! instead they query the kernel to do it for them via system calls
(calls directly to the kernel)



Shell: a program that lets you control the operating system (reads your commands and starts programs)
Exe:
launches programs like python, ssh, or other things like that (which are executables btw)
piping / redirection: cat a | grep x > out.txt 
managed environment variables like PATH and HOME (more or that later)
common examples like bash or zsh

Terminal:
The window that displays the text input/output.

All together: opening a terminal opens a text session (PTY)
That starts your shell (zsh / bash)
shell runs commands like python or ssh
these commands ask the kernel to do work for them (ie allocate me some memory and compute this for me)









From Scratch:

Computers:
CPU, Memory, Storage, Devices (keyboard, screen, network card, etc)
IMPORTANT: Devices just means a piece of hardware that the kernel knows how to interact with (disk drive, partition,
keyboard, gpu, serial port, pseudo-things like a terminal)

What is an operating system:
if mutliple files ran at once, they would fight over cpu, memory and the Devices
OS fixes that.
The CORE PART of the OS is the kernel, which lets you:
schedule CPU time
manage memory
control Devices
and enforce permissions
(EVERYTHING else, like shells, browsers, and editors are regular programs)


CPU stuff:
cpus have 
Registers: tiny, fast storage for operation
Instruction POINTER: a special register (IP,RIP,PC) that holds the address of the next instructions
CPU cycle:
repeatedly fetches instruction at address in IP, decodes, executes, and updates UP to the next address

Question: okay but where do these instruction bytes live? ANSWER: in RAM:
Memory is an address space; cpu runs by reading addresses.

exe:

address:    0x1000      0x1001      0x1002  ...
value:      90          90          C3      ...

The CPU, reads memory at RIP to get instruction, interprets the bytes as an instruction, 
maybe reads/writes bytes to other memory addresses as part of teh instruction, then updates RIP

THUS: to run program, need instruction bytes in memory, and a starting RIP







NOW, into processes:

You get the CPU registers + memory stuff, but where do processes come it.
The CPU can only run one stream of instructions at once, but what if you want to run multiple programs at a time?

to do that, the os needs to separate:
1: each programs memory (so they dont accidentaly re-write ontop of eachother)
2: Each programs registers (RIP or where you were, RSP )





PROCESSES:
a process = the os's container for running code. allmost everything you do in a terminal is the shell creating/managing PROCESSES

Process vs Program:
Program = bytes on disk (an executable like /bin/ls)
Process = that program loaded into memory and running with the os tracking it






